# Unsupervised Representation Learning with Deep Convolutional Generative Adversarial Networks

This is the famous DCGAN paper, which is I assume the default architecture we
assume for GANs, at least in computer vision applications for image generation.

See also the [OpenAI blog post][4], among other things. They clearly describe
the **input code**:

> This network takes as input 100 random numbers drawn from a uniform
> distribution (we refer to these as a code, or latent variables, in red)


## Main Idea

This is focused on **unsupervised** learning, how can we train a machine to do
something (in this case, image generation) without the usual labeled training
data? Well, here we do have labels actually (the true data versus the generator)
but this is not what we really think of as supervised learning.

What's the extension of GAN --> DCGAN? In the original GANs paper, they said:

> The generator nets used a mixture of rectifier linear activations [19, 9] and
> sigmoid activations, while the discriminator net used maxout [10] activations.
> Dropout [17] was applied in training the discriminator net. While our
> theoretical framework permits the use of dropout and other noise at
> intermediate layers of the generator, we used noise as the input to only the
> bottommost layer of the generator network.

Here are some of the changes with DCGAN:

- More convolutional layers (I think).
- Batch normalization in the layers.

Look at Figure 1 for an overview of the architecture. It can take some getting
used to, particularly for those new to convolutions.


## Thoughts and Takeaways

Color me impressed. =) I really like the results.

Most of the changes above are probably minor in the grand scheme of things. I
wonder which of the GAN --> DCGAN extensions is the most useful?


## Code Implementations

The following two seem to be the standard:

- [dcgan_code][1] (by the original author, Alec Radford, in Theano)
- [dcgan.torch][2] (by the third Author, in Torch)
- [DCGAN-Tensorflow][2] (by a really good coder, not even a PhD student yet (!!), in TensorFlow)

As the first repository states:

> All images in this paper are generated by a neural network. They are NOT REAL.

[1]:https://github.com/Newmu/dcgan_code
[2]:https://github.com/soumith/dcgan.torch
[3]:https://github.com/carpedm20/DCGAN-tensorflow
[4]:https://blog.openai.com/generative-models/
